Welcome to Thriller Recapped, Today, I will
show you an American Psychological Thriller
Horror Mystery film called “Regression”,
Spoilers Ahead, watch out and take care.
The movie starts In the year 1990, in Hoyer
Minnesota, we see, John Gray, praying inside his
car, while outside a Police station. A man calls
out John and signals him to come to his office.
John sits down anxiously, as the deputy informs
him, that his daughter lives in a church with
a man named Reverend Murray. He then shows him a
paper, saying his daughter has already signed it.
Another man named, Detective Bruce Kenner, enters
the room, and speaks his name as he records their
voice. He places the recording machine near John
and tells him to say his name and occupation.
The Detective interviews John regarding his
daughter. John claims he has been praying, but
he still thinks it is impossible, since he cannot
remember anything. But he is sure of one thing,
his daughter, Angela, never lies. John then tells
Detective Bruce that Angela has been avoiding him,
making him worried. Detective Bruce interrupts and
approaches John and tells him to take the hat off.
We see John is going bald because of the
stress. The Detective walks out of the
room saying John confessed, but he does not
remember, which makes the case confusing.
Detective Bruce, claims that John needs a
psychologist, and he needs to meet Angela.
The next day, Detective Bruce drives
to a house, with many police officers,
and he meets a crying woman holding her cat. The
woman is named, Mrs. Gray, Angela's grandmother.
Detective Bruce asks her if she knows anything
about the case. She claims that Reverend already
told her, and that her son John, started raging
up, when she asked him about it, She denies all
the claims of police, then Reverend suggests
that Angela should rather stay at the church.
Detective Bruce asks permission to
let him take a look at Angela's room.
He enters Angela's immaculate room, unlike
the other room. He walks and looks at their
family photo. He hears some noise and he looks
outside the window and learns that the door of
a workshop was making the noise, opening
and closing by itself. An officer named,
George Nesbitt, interrupts him. The officer
suggests that they shouldn’t enter the room
without a warrant, but The detective claims that
the lady already allowed them in, He then asks
for the son's whereabouts. George claims he left
two years ago and does not know where he is now.
George insists, that they
should not mention her grandson,
since it is not a good time to discuss it.
Bruce ignores him and proceeds to ask her,
if the grandson is running away from
his father, she claims his son held her
hands last night and prayed, and she then
looks at her necklace, with a cross in it.
Later that night, the rise of people praying to
Satan is mentioned. The police officer George,
who claims to be close with the Gray family,
insists that John cannot force himself on
his own 17 year old daughter Angela. Detective
Bruce says that he heard, Angela is a shy girl.
George claims he has seen her growing up. He has
seen the way they live. He also concludes that she
lost her mom, and maybe she wants to run away
from reality. Bruce questions George's theory
on a seventeen-year-old girl sending her dad to
prison just because she wants to change her life.
Detective Bruce then sarcastically agrees.
At the police station, the Chief of police,
Mr. Cleveland, asks for a report on John Gray.
A professor named, Kenneth Raines, who is also
a psychiatrist claims John's mental state is
normal. They cannot find any reason for his sudden
amnesia, The professor claims that John denied
having a lawyer which means he is not trying to
protect himself. Bruce mentions that John already
made a confession but he cannot remember what he
did, resulting in the people not believing him,
they speculate he has now repressed his memories,
hiding them at the back of his head, and it is
not easy to find a key to unlock it and provoke
a Regression, He says a famous saying that a
mind is a whole universe. Then he suggests to
use Regressive Hypnosis. Later, Detective Bruce
quotes Angela's confession stating how John forced
himself on her step by step, John feels uneasy
hearing it. Professor Raines, who is also in the
room, tells Bruce to reread it and urges John to
concentrate. John begs to God, to ease his pain.
John is being hypnotized and he sees a vision in
his mind. He then describes it to the Professor
and Detective. Professor is confused on why John
would use the word, he, John says he sees another
man tying to force himself on his daughter to the
bed, but he assumes it is him. Professor Raines
claims he must have let someone in, someone he
knows. As John focuses on the face of the man,
he finds himself taking pictures of the man while
he is doing it, he sees George. Detective Bruce
is shocked to hear this, and he runs from there in
sports mode, to find George Nesbitt, he catches up
with him in the parking lot and informs him about
it, that they have the pictures of him doing it,
and George is scared, and Bruce arrests him.
Later, the lawyer of George,
she is being aggressive about them accusing
her client and she leaves. Detective Bruce
and Professor Raines leaves the police station to
meet with Angela, to identify George as a suspect.
Bruce claims he already suspected George since
the beginning because of his strange behavior.
As they arrive to the church, they meet, Hermione
Granger, I mean, Angela, a gorgeous young woman.
They inform Angela about the man in her room and
the rituals that her father mentioned. Detective
Bruce lays out photos for Angela to see. Bruce
calmly suggests, if Angela can write it down.
Angela is hesitant at first, but she requests
she would do it alone. Then they leave the room
to talk with Reverend. He claims he saw her one
day at the church during one of their gatherings
and she started crying suddenly. He claims
that God has spoken to him during that time.
Later, Bruce reads the paper written by Angela,
and it mentions all the horrors she went through,
He also sees a drawing of an upside-down
cross. He feels disappointed.
He questions Angela on who else was
with her father. Angela feels uneasy,
but then points out George Nesbitt's photo.
Bruce slowly grabs her hand to comfort her,
but she rejects it and she leaves the room
with tears in her eyes. Reverend gives a
paper written by Angela to John, to make him
remember about the satanic ritual he did, and
he leaves. Later that night, The chief of police
watches the news at a bar about satanic rituals,
and he calls Bruce and he asks him to turn on
his TV and see the news about satanic ritual.
Few hours later, John is sleeping, and he wakes
up horrified scared from something he saw.
The next day, the police officers held a
meeting about the case and satanic rituals.
A police officer claims he already
red the book and describes it,
as like a pile of trash. Bruce claims this case is
complicated, and they should be serious about it.
After the meeting, Bruce and Cleveland are
talking and Bruce speculates that he feels this
case is a part of something bigger. An officer
interrupts them, claiming they have located
the whereabouts of John’s Son, who ran away.
Professor Raines and Detective Bruce flies to
Pittsburgh, in order to find Roy Gray. They find
Roy living in an abandoned building with a cat.
They inform Roy about his father and the
happenings. Roy claims John practices Satanic
rituals, and made his wife kill herself, from his
drinking problem. Bruce claims the report he saw,
that her mother was killed in a car accident. Roy
then is confused after claiming that these things
did not happen. Professor suggests they might
find the answer through reviewing his memories
with hypnotism. As they start, Roy describes,
he is in his room. A bunch of people wearing
black hoods surrounds Roy in the bed. He says
their faces are like witches. Professor urges
him to describe what they are doing, but Roy
stops as he is too scared and he breaks down.
In the plane, Professor Raines claims that
there is something different with his memories,
that he was a child in his vision and
he saw six people doing the ritual,
and there are 6 family members in their house.
Bruce suspects the grandmother Rose Gray.
Later, Police officers are investigating inside
her house, and she is not happy about it. Bruce
informs her that they have talked with Roy, and
she is hiding where the photos are. She then
slaps him in the face, claiming he is lying. She
then runs back into the house, mourning about it.
Later, Bruce is watching George answering
the questions with a lie detector test.
The chief shows him the FBI report
on Satanists and the rituals,
and they believe it is something bigger.
He then gets a call and he arrives in the
hospital. The doctor claims he
wants to inspect Angela's mark.
Bruce then enters the room with Angela alone. He
then comforts her with his words. Angela decides
to let him see the mark, she lifts the shirt
and the mark is placed on left of her stomach.
She claims the cult will have to kill them
both, since she has now exposed the mark to him.
Later, Bruce plays the recordings of Angela as
she describes what happened during the ritual
in the house, and it was her grandmother dressed
as satanists. Bruce follows Angela's description,
and imagines the vision in detail. The workshop
door Bruce notices earlier is mentioned,
he enters her dad's workshop, they used to force
themselves on people and torture people in a cell.
A woman gives everyone a juice to drink while
saying this is not happening and it’s all a dream.
They brought out a baby, and they started
stabbing it, and they burned the remains
of the baby and buried them on John's
property. Bruce is absorbed in the vision,
and he feels that they are staring at him. He
then quickly runs outside, and catches his breath.
In the next meeting, a lot of police
officers are involved to the case.
Bruce notices Angela in the police station, she
claims someone is following her. Bruce tells her
that the city is shocked about the news, so it
must be ordinary people who are staring at her.
Angela claims further that there is someone
who was following her, right before her
mother died. Bruce suggests he should get her
statement, and walks out to get his recorder.
Later that night, Bruce drops off Angela to the
church. Angela gives him a bible and claims it
would protect him. She then says goodnight, and
Bruce thanks her for the bible. Bruce drives to
the road slowly where Angela claims someone is
watching her, as he plays the recording of Angela.
Her mother told her it is one of their
tactics to stare at people as a death threat.
Sometimes they would call in the middle of the
night and hang up, which served as a warning,
an invitation to be one of them.
Bruce is now reading the book that he saw
on the television, then suddenly the electricity
cuts off, and he goes to his bed to sleep.
He then sees a light outside his room, soon, a man
in a black hoodie grabs him and covers his mouth,
as another man injects something on his
arm, he tries to grab the telephone,
but the man ties his hands to the bed. A lady in
a red hood is brought. They take off her hood,
and she then forces herself on him. The people in
the black hood start taking pictures as the lady
turns into Rose Gray, the grandmother, with white
eyes and no pupils. Bruce jumps out to realize
it was just a nightmare, until the light goes on,
and he sees his telephone hanging below his table.
Professor and Bruce visits John in the prison,
where he hanged up the drawings of Devil on his
walls. Bruce claims John is the Devil and urges
him to confess about killing his wife. The two men
then proceed to visit Angela in the church with
Rose. Angela sheds a tear, as she claims Rose
does not remember anything during the ritual. Rose
gets mad and grabs her hand, but Bruce stops her.
Professor shows her the drawing that John drew
of them stabbing a baby. Rose claims she knows
she will never kill a baby and she rages up.
Reverend suggests he should take her home.
Angela continues to cry. Bruce approaches her
and holds her hand. This time she did not reject,
instead, she hold him with her other hand.
On the ride to drop off Rose, she is looking
at John's drawing. Reverend Claims they are up
against a devil. Rose then sees a picture with
red eyes. Later that night, Bruce receives a call
on the telephone, he assumes it was the Chief,
but no one answers. He then grabs his
gun, and locks the door of his room.
Rose notices her cat meowing from a distance.
She follows the voice and discovers that the
cat is inside the workshop. She points the
flashlight above her cat, and she is scared
to see another cat with red eyes just like what
she saw on the drawings of John. She gets back
to house and locks the door. She hears voices
on the TV even when it is already off. She then
sees blood coming out below the doors, cries of a
baby is heard, She then jumps out from the window.
In the morning, Bruce meets Angela, they are
waiting for Rose to confess and that she is now
staying at the hospital. Both of them then sit in
front of her mom’s grave, Emil Gray. Angela lays
her head on Bruce's shoulder. Then they both start
kissing each other, they realize what they are
doing. Bruce looks behind and discovers Reverend
has seen them. Bruce apologizes and he leaves.
Later, Roy visits his grandmother in the hospital.
He then orders Bruce not to talk to her anymore.
She is now delirious. He claims Professor
Raines is a fraud as a Psychiatrist,
and he also insults Reverend as a
Preacher. He then orders everyone to leave.
Outside the hospital, Reverend offers
them a necklace with a big cross.
Bruce accepts the necklace, and then Reverend
leaves. Professor claims that Bruce is scared
because he is not using his head anymore. Before
leaving, a man in a hoodie stares at Bruce, making
him feel unease. At home, he gets another phone
call but no one answers. It is revealed that it
was Angela, who was calling him from a payphone.
Bruce gets another nightmare. One men in the black
hoodie appears to be George. Then he is surrounded
by the group, and he hears a baby crying,
he screams, no, as he tries to run away
but discovers himself covered with blood,
already killing the baby. The woman offers him a
bowl of blood and tells him this is only a dream.
Bruce wakes up as he points the gun in front of
him. Later during a redlight, he notices a lot
of people are now staring at him. At the police
station, he discovers that George is now free.
He panics and grabs his gun, and points it at him.
The Chief and Professor tries to calm him down
in an office. They inform him that George
already cleared the polygraph test twice.
Professor explains they have received Angela's
medical report, showing the mark was recent and
self-inflicted. He also explains to Bruce that a
lot of people are staring at him because of how he
looks tired. The Chief suggests he should get some
rest and forget about the case for a few days.
Professor offers him a small pill,
and Bruce puts it in his mouth.
As soon as he gets out of the office, he takes
out the pill, and throws it in the trash.
Bruce gets in his car and plays the recordings
of John when he first interviewed him.
Bruce does not notice that a car is following
him. He interviews John once again and he wants
to know more about the family. John claims it is
about his son Roy. That his son is not straight,
and he likes men, which is why he kicked
him out of their house. In their church,
they are called sodomites, sins that people
always learn from some unregulated stuff.
Bruce then realizes John is just taking the
blame for forcing himself on his daughter,
to hide the sins of his son from the church.
John then starts breaking down and he cries.
In a Bar, Bruce rips off his notes as he realizes
they are all worthless. He then looks outside the
window, he goes out and he sees a billboard of
the woman, who was handing out blood to drink.
He then visits Professor in his house. He explains
the woman in an advertisement, was in his head.
He theorises that It is not memories, but
fantasies induced by the police and the people.
Professor asks if it is true about George Nesbitt.
Bruce still believes George Nesbitt is guilty,
they argue and he leaves. When he arrives back
to his home, two-masked man then attacks him. He
gets the upper hand, and he points his gun to the
men, and tells them to unmask themselves. He finds
out that the two are, Nesbitt and another police
officer. Bruce claims he would not report this,
but instead, he wants to know what
Nesbitt knows. Nesbitt claims he
already told him everything, that day in the car.
Bruce then arrives to the church, and he demands
to Reverend, that he needs to meet Angela because
he has already solved the case. Angela comes out
of the room in her nightgown, shedding tears of
joy to hear the news. Bruce asks her questions
like, if the Satanists forced her to eat the baby,
to Angela to clarify the case. Angela seems to
agree to everything he says, but Bruce has nothing
in the notes. He shows them the note. Reverend is
shocked, Bruce claims he made it all up. Angela
asks him why he is lying. Bruce explains Angela
does not love her family. She hates them all,
and thinks they are a bunch of drunk losers.
George revealed this to Bruce, that he and
Angela were sleeping together. George rejected
her because he does not want to run away with a
minor. Angela then decided to change her life.
Reverend still claims Angela is innocent
and says the Lord has already spoken to him,
Bruce then kicks him out. Bruce claims Angela
wanted to get rid of her family and went too far,
and now she cannot stop. Angela threatens
him, that no one will believe him,
especially when she tells everyone, what he did
in the cemetery in front of her mother's grave.
Bruce then leaves the church and tells Reverend
he was right all along. Evil does exist.
In the news, a TV reporter states that
the police has no leads with the satanic
ritual. Reverend and Angela are shown on TV,
claiming they saw Satanists killing a baby. Roy
and Rose are in a hospital, they see the news
and they ignore it with dissapointment. Bruce
visits John in the prison, who is confused about
what he saw and what he did not. Bruce explains
they saw what the police made them believe. It was
all made up. John claims he was drunk entire time,
and that ruined their family, it is his
fault for making Angela into what she is now.
Bruce claims it was his fault to be stupid, Bruce
wants to help John so he stops punishing himself.
John demands that he wants to plead guilty and
take the blame, and he is doing this for Angela,
so that one day, she will realize it, and
she will stop hating him. And the movie ends,
Please don’t forget to like & Subscribe
it really helps the channel grow.